The most popular HTTP methods (CRUD) create, read, update and delete:

POST: Sends data to a server to create a resource.
GET: Requests data from a specified resource. This is one of the most common methods.
PUT: Sends data to a server to update a resource.
DELETE: Deletes the specified resource.

Other methods useful:

HEAD: Similar to GET, but it does not return the response body.
OPTIONS: Returns the HTTP methods that the server supports for the specified URL.
PATCH: Applies partial modifications to a resource.


HTTP Status Codes:

200 OK: The request has succeeded.
201 Created: The request has succeeded and a new resource was created as a result.
204 No Content: The server has successfully fulfilled the request and there is no additional content to send in the response payload body.

300 Multiple Choices: The request has more than one possible response. The client should choose one of them.
301 Moved Permanently: The URL of the requested resource has been changed permanently. The new URL is given in the response.
302 Found: This response code means that the URI of the requested resource has been changed temporarily.
304 Not Modified: It is used for caching purposes. It tells the client that the response has not been modified,
    so the client can continue to use the same cached version of the response.

400 Bad Request: The server could not understand the request due to invalid syntax.
401 Unauthorized: The request requires user authentication.
403 Forbidden: The server understood the request, but it refuses to authorize it.
404 Not Found: The server can't find the requested resource.

500 Internal Server Error: The server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.
501 Not Implemented: The request method is not supported by the server and cannot be handled.
502 Bad Gateway: This error response means that the server,
    while working as a gateway to get a response needed to handle the request, got an invalid response.
503 Service Unavailable: The server is not ready to handle the request.
    Common causes are a server that is down for maintenance or that is overloaded.